# An RNAi Screen of Regulators Reveals the Adhesion G-Protein Coupled Receptor CIRL Regulates Collective cell Migration 

Emmanuel A. Gyabaah<sup>1,2</sup>, Jenevieve Norton<sup>2</sup>, Maik Bischoff<sup>2</sup>, Erika Munguia<sup>2</sup>, Noah Gurley<sup>2</sup>, Sarah Clark<sup>2</sup>, and Mark Peifer<sup>2,3</sup> 

<sup>1</sup> Department of Biochemistry and Biotechnology, Kwame Nkrumah University of Science & Technology, <sup>2</sup> Department of Biology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, <sup>3</sup> Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center

# ABSTRACT
Collective cell migration plays a crucial role in diverse biological processes, including embryonic development, wound healing, and cancer metastasis. In vivo systems, including the Drosophila egg chamber, Zebrafish posterior lateral line migration, and Xenopus neural crest cell migration, have facilitated the study of migratory cell behaviour, revealing the core mechanisms of collective cell migration. Currently, only a few model systems allow the high-resolution genetic dissection of the molecular mechanisms driving cell motility during tissue morphogenesis in real time. The Drosophila testis myotube migration system, which enables the genetic investigation of various developmental and cell biological questions, including modes of filopodia-based protrusion and locomotion, cell-cell adhesion, cytoskeletal mechanisms of collective decision-making, and collective closure processes. Hence, using the Drosophila testis myotube migration system as a model allows for high-resolution live-cell imaging and in vivo/organ culture techniques. However, the identity of key regulators of collective cell migration remains elusive. 

We hypothesized that transmembrane receptors, secreted ligands, Rho family GTPases and cytoskeletal regulators were likely key players in this process. To test this, I utilized the Drosophila testis myotube migration system. We conducted RNA sequencing on isolated myotubes to identify candidate genes that were expressed during migration. Starting from this list of candidates, I used the GAL4/UAS system to express 46 short hairpin RNAs targeting 25 genes, and then examined the phenotypic consequences of knockdown in the adult testis. To achieve this gene knockdown, I crossed male flies carrying a UAS-RNAi line with females carrying Mef2-Gal4, a muscle specific driver. I collected one- to-three-day old adult male progeny, and dissected testis from 10 males, replicated three times.  I first examined the testis under a dissecting scope. For any lines with potential morphological defects, testes were then stained with fluorescently labeled phalloidin, which binds F-actin and thus outlines muscles, and imaged by confocal microscopy. I observed numerous gene-specific defects in testis morphology, such as gaps in muscle structure and dilated tips, each of which are indicative of deficiencies in adhesion or migration. In total, I tested 46 RNAi lines covering 25 candidate genes. I discovered that knockdown of two genes—Cirl and CdGAPr—resulted in adhesion defects, which suggested that these genes may play a significant role in myotube migration. Together our gene expression data and RNAi screen provide the scientific community with resources to further explore this process of collective cell migration and tissue morphogenesis. In the end, the data I generated during my summer research has been integrated into a manuscript, which includes me as a co-author, and is currently available as a pre-print and submitted for peer review.
